what is the future of home ownership in
this video I'm going to explain why it's
the corporations that will have the
ownership and you well you're the surf
class you came here for the truth so let
me unveil that for you in today's video
I'm going to show you the harsh reality
of what's happening right here today and
then at the very end I'll explain it all
tie it all in together we're going to
look at Commercial Real Estate we're
also going to look at residential real
estate you got to understand that
there's a lot of differences between
those two but I'm going to tie it all in
at the end you'll see can America's
middle class still afford home ownership
in 2024 the long story short here is
that more and more and more in fact the
answer is no all right there's no two
ways about it housing affordability has
worsen significantly since 2020 in 2019
middle- class households could
comfortably buy a typical home in 91 of
the top 100 largest metro by 2024 that
figure had fallen to just 52 families in
the lower middle class can only afford
to buy an average home in seven of the
top 100 metros that is a shocking
statistic whenever you look at that you
go to half of the places it's
unaffordable to you half of the places
do you see what's happening here in a
matter of a few years you've been
crushed you've been crushed by inflation
this is the number of affordable metros
by income tier this is one chart and
I'll show you the other okay you could
see it looking at
this breaks it down further if you want
to see that and then you can see the
charge of course California area you
know Yan Lulu all those that you expect
on there but things have changed so much
so much okay and this is a map if you
want to see it in a map version it just
shows us that more and more and more
especially of the the the desirable a
lot of the areas are desirable and
they've become unaffordable that is not
a good thing so I'm just trying to show
you in different ways but let's get into
the more data renting is now cheaper
than owning in all of America's 50th 50
biggest Metro areas so this is elevated
mortgage rates and Rising prices make
home buying more expensive than renting
in the top 50 metropolitan areas this is
not a good sign all right because
because those prices have gone berserk
and now the the problem here as well is
if you have a landlord small mom and pop
landlord they are in a burden State as
well because their borrowing costs might
be higher and now they are going to be
in trouble you might say yeah well screw
them well there's a problem there a very
big problem with that and I'll explain
why in a few minutes please stick with
me on that subject if you think screw
the landlord I'll explain why you should
not want that are there bad landlords
absolutely but I'll tell you why you got
to be careful what you wish for that's
all I'm saying what record office
vacancies mean for New York City's
economy what do you think I'm going to
show you right here what risks does the
office Market pose for the city's
finances check this out a lot of the
taxes
21% in this case for New York when we're
talking about the property taxes well if
you're not you don't have renters you
don't have tenants you don't have people
paying the bills you have basically
these companies operating these towers
they're not or it doesn't necessarily
have to be a Towers but commercial real
estate in
general well if they're not paying their
bills well you're not going to get the
tax tax from that do you see this
21% it's broken down Class A B other and
trophy make it up
21% this is a concern for obvious
reasons because these governments rely
on those property
taxes okay and now they're not going to
get that or they're going to have less
of it it's going to be a heavier oh what
do we do we just oh we increase it so
now everybody's got to pay more how does
that that sound do you see the problem
here commercial real estate is a very
big issue LA's luxury house sales
plummet 70% of the first year since its
hated Mansion tax was brought in as
millionaires chose to live outside the
city in Beverly Hills Malibu and Santa
Monica instead hey you don't want us to
live over here all right we'll just buy
over there we'll just move out of the
state or we do this there's a problem of
course because you're kind of pushed
into all these other areas just like
people in 2020 were saying hey I'll just
go into these small towns these small
towns couldn't really take all this new
population they couldn't handle the
sudden price increases and there was
much less availability in inventory
caused a lot of problems the same thing
is also happening to people just saying
I don't like what's going on you're
going to move out well now you're
getting a lot of people moving in and
around these different cities um there's
internal migration that's happening uh
which is cusing some issues and um I
think not a lot of people are too happy
about it if they've been there in that
place for a long time Toronto housing
Toronto housing is now more expensive
than New York let me explain to you
again Toronto's housing is now more
expensive than New York that is a
powerful powerful line so you have to
understand that you have to mirror this
and look at it properly because you
might say well in terms it's you know
one of no we have to compare what the
average household makes in both places
and then look at the average price of
the homes or median right median and you
get a very different very different
number and Toronto has become one of the
most overpriced places in the world
while you have declining living
standards that's what we're experiencing
right here compare that to to your city
and see how it has performed over these
last four years is it better or is it
worse some places there's been a few
places that you could say that yeah it's
better actually there's been new
Services there's been these new New
Roads have been built been you know
maybe it's not cheaper than it was
before but we have all these new things
there are other places though that
actually the bridges are not getting
done and that's not getting done well
and also it's a lot more expensive
that's a bad trend
that's what's going on in Toronto if you
look at some other places like Dubai or
something uh they're more expensive no
question about it but they have more
stuff more stuff is being built Abu
Dhabi same thing so UAE You could argue
is in a better circumstance if you have
the money half of downtown Pittsburgh
office space could be empty in four
years so the same scenario here that's
Pittsburgh but look at extrapolate that
to all these different cities if those
office towers are are empty or half
empty or whatever you want to you know
say for those different areas you've got
a big concern all right you will have to
pay that bill that's what I'm trying to
say it's not some
Bank you have to pay that bill German
home prices tumble record 8% in 2023
amid property route I'm just trying to
show you that there's go like stuff is
going on all over the world in real
estate Toronto's office vacancies jump
to 133% some landlords are now dangling
free
rent you see what's going on here we
need to pull people in we need more
businesses we need more tenants we are
in trouble and if they don't pay up you
have a cascading effect now that's
commercial side but residential also
very important and this is why
Blackstone just added another uh 38,000
homes as it buys fellow institutional
landlord tricon these are the impacted
housing markets if you want you can
check it out links are in the
description below what am I trying to
warn about if you understand the
scenario here it's very simple as you
have the Mom and Pops that retire
because you know they're just done with
it I can't manage those homes I'm out of
here those mom and pops sell those
properties who is going to buy up these
properties in a lot of cases it's these
companies like Blackstone that have an
unlimited budget that can spend billions
and billions of dollars and what will
they do to rents they're going to jack
them up they're going to try and fix up
what they can you know do a value ad
they're going to jack up those rents and
they do they care about you the tenant
you know you go through some hardship
what are they are you going to be able
to reason with them no of course not
you're going to give be given an email
address a general inbox you're going to
be communicating through that General
inbox you've got nobody to call to say
hey can you please help me out I'm
really struggling you know this bad
thing happened to me can you just give
me an extra few days whatever this
you're not going to get any of that the
mom and pop if they're a good landlord
is very good it's somebody that you can
work with the corporate side no it's
cold it's like steel and we will see
more and more of this there's no
question about it doesn't matter if
prices are too high it doesn't matter if
there's a problem if there's a recession
if there's an economic issue they might
buy less there might be a problem for
for them for a period but they'll scoop
up more and more and more and more we
become the surf class this is what's
going on this is why I tell people what
be careful what you wish for be careful
what you wish for do you agree with me
if so put that in the comments if not
let me know right with a thumbs up or a
thumbs down you you decide I want to
know what you're thinking these are the
type of things like I I tell people on
my Sunday business live how we've got to
be able to be mobile we can't do this
anymore that we're stuck in one place
and restricted to one location we might
stay in one place but being able to
Simply get up and go and your finances
can go with you now that's a beautiful
thing all right that's what we talk
about on the Sunday business live I hope
to see you there if again if you can't
make it to these sessions live you still
get the recordings so you know I I would
love it for you to be there live because
it's it's interactive it's Zoom session
uh but if you can't you get the
recording some people just watch the
recordings they're in different time
zones or whatever so that's all good if
that's all you can do but don't miss out
on on some extremely important
information okay um I don't sugar stuff
as you know and I don't get into the
nonsense that some of the others out
there do I just like to keep it to the
truth that's all if you appreciate this
information hit that thumbs up if you
disagree with me hit that thumbs down
but as always I'll see you here tomorrow
take care